# Multi-hop driver-parcel matching with dynamic network partitioning: when is it more beneficial to split trips in on-demand logistics services?


On-demand logistics services enable customers to place parcel orders online within a prescribed delivery time window. The surge in parcel volume poses significant challenges to meeting service expectations and uncertain demands. To optimize delivery efficiency, a common practice is to use a single-hop delivery approach, where no intermediate parcel transfer is allowed. This approach may result in under-utilization of supply capacities and hamper the ability to service parcels effectively. Multi-hop delivery, on the other hand, allows parcels to transfer between couriers in a single trip, making greater use of existing capacities and creating service opportunities that were previously unattainable. Under the assumption that couriers prefer to operate within smaller geographic areas to enhance their efficiency for local pickups and drop-offs, this paper addresses the real-time multi-hop delivery problem. The service area is divided into smaller courier regions, and each courier is assigned to a specific region, performing delivery tasks exclusively within their designated region. A set of accessible lockers is assumed to be placed on the edges of these regions, serving as transfer nodes. We propose two-phase heuristic algorithms, Dynamic Programming, and Earliest-Completion-Time (ECT) algorithms, to tackle the multi-hop delivery problem. Experimental results for realistic settings demonstrate the advantages of multi-hop delivery services with pre-assigned courier operating regions. Our proposed methods significantly outperform the single-hop delivery benchmark, achieving more courier-parcel matchings, reducing total travel distance, and simultaneously enhancing customer satisfaction.
